Which is that now?
It's, I don't know what that bank is called now.
University?
Yeah, it's on University.
And I had an office suite with Dr. Walter Juleff, who was kind enough to take me in and pay my expenses.
And so
I resided over there for a number of years and changed my directions to international activities.
All right.
And describe those.
What were you?
working on?
Initially, I was asked by a Houston oil company who had a joint venture with a Russian oil company to provide them advice on
Since I had degrees in agriculture and degrees in veterinary medicine and a degree from a medical school, they asked me to serve in advisory capacity to them in agriculture and veterinary medicine and medicine in the Republic of Twardistan.
And so I began working in that republic for an oil company in Russia called Tatneft and set up some model programs and helped set up medical programs and agricultural research center and et cetera, et cetera.
Were you doing that when the USSR broke up?
I began my first trip and first relationship was just prior to the breakup.
How did things change for an American when the USSR
Well, you went from a from very totally central government to no government overnight, but Tartistan was the original republic that had most of the oil.
It was just
It was just east of Moscow, about 300 or so miles, but just right at the edge of the Volga River.
And that republic, being primarily a Muslim republic, had always functioned fairly independently.
And they had the major oil resources at that time.
I saw very little change working out of that republic.
So, as your task changed in the 90s, then you didn't teach any classes.
How often did you come over to veterinary medicine?
Oh, very, very little.
All right, then did you, you didn't stay over there in that office forever, did you?
No, well, while I was over in that office, I was still, even though I was not located at the college,
given the charge to set up the 75th celebration for the College of Veterinary Medicine.
Oh, describe that.
And that was a very time-consuming thing and something that was probably—I may have made it too elaborate, but— When was that?
Oh, that would have been in 90—I can't remember.
Ten years ago, I was going to be there.
Fifteen years from now, it'll be a hundred so.
Yeah, it'll be a hundred.
So that'd be... In 2013, I think, we'll be... Something like that, we'll be at a hundred, so you could go back from that.
In 1993 to 91 every time frame.
Yeah.
And what did y'all do?
Well, what I... The approach I took to it was...
Dr. Shattuck wanted a great celebration, so it took me three years to get it organized and then to fulfill it.
But we started out with
trying to decide what we might want.
And so at first I thought we'd just have maybe one session somewhere.
But as it grew and as I contacted other schools,
We started out, we had to develop a logo, and then we had to develop a piece of artwork.
Then we had a book, a special kind of doctor that was put together, and then we had
the paintings, we had prints made and had lots of things.
And then I thought, well, who do we want to know about veterinary medicine?
And I decided, well, we need the faculty and we need the students and we need the people of Texas and we need the veterinary practitioners and we need the legislative people.
We need various facets of the people in Texas from agriculture to rural to urban and so forth.
And so I eventually set up a celebration point at each month so that we interfaced with a different segment of society.
And then, of course, we had the grand kickoff and we had the closure and all of those things.
So it turned out to be a
a pretty significant task and right now I'm doing the same thing for the Texas Veterinary Medical Association as they will celebrate their 100th year in 2003 and so I'm doing the same thing for them just now.
Where will most of those events occur?
Well, I'm going to use the same tact.
I'll have a kickoff celebration here at College Station, and then I'll have activities at the Fort Worth and Houston and
and San Antonio stock shows.
We'll have things in the legislature or the rotunda and other things there.
We will
have activities at various organized groups in the state.
We will have high school students
participate in essay contests and such as that in order to give us their thoughts on veterinary medicine.
We have special journal issues that will be produced.
I'm trying to get a piece of artwork put together, which I have an artist working on.
She is a Norman Rockwell artist.
Tammy Bissett and she is putting us a Norman Rockwell type of painting together and it's going to be pretty exciting.
Where will the original hang?
Well, we'll probably somewhere here in the college, I imagine, or maybe in Austin at our headquarters, we'll probably bid that out to the highest bidder.
The one at the 75th, I think, brought $1,000, but we will have probably 500 prints plus the original.
we'll use those.
This is going to cost us a couple hundred thousand dollars for this celebration.
And anyhow, we'll do all those things and then I came up with an idea of
of how we might make money for the Veterinary Medical Association.
There's never been a book on veterinary medicine published for
young people, say, in the age group three to eight or what have you.
There's just never been a children's book published on the veterinary profession anywhere.
So I found an author that does that kind of thing and has access to Barnes and Noble
for distribution, and so we are now writing a children's book on veterinary medicine, and we expect that to be a group of sequel books about veterinarians, perhaps as a zoo veterinarian, as a small animal, as a large animal, as public health, as all the different facets that veterinarians carry out.
Is the hope that these would be nationally marketed?
These would be nationally marketed through Barnes & Noble.
And there's a chance, I think, of there being a tremendous income from this for the association.
We are getting copyrights.
As I speak, we're writing a contract.
During all of these years that you have been working in veterinary medicine, Texas Tech on occasion has made efforts to get a vet school, and I believe officially they received authority to have a veterinary program in the 70s, but never got any funding.
What is your opinion about there being more than one vet program in Texas?
That was, that approval came during Governor Smith's term, and he was a Tech graduate, and he pushed through the legislature a medical school, a school of nursing, and a veterinary school through the legislature, and Tech was recognized as
is having the authority to offer education in those three areas.
He got funding for the medical school, and he got funding for the school of nursing, and he even had facilities built for all three, a type of facility, not a complete facility.
And the legislature, although it approved Veterinary College in Lubbock, it never did fund it.
And that's been 30 years ago.
And the issue has arisen once again.
And there's just lots of political aspects to it.
First, the coordinating board said they don't think that something approved 30 years ago is still valid.
The Texas A.M.
Veterinary College has established programs in West Texas, at Amarillo and different places, diagnostic labs.
And be glad to establish other, we have diagnostic labs in South Texas and different, different East Texas and different places.
And we'd be glad to put more in.
The numbers of graduates are certainly sufficient to cover the state of Texas.
We have the largest veterinary school in the country.
The complaint seems to be that there are some counties that don't have enough veterinarians.
And we found out a long time ago that we cannot force graduates into unpopulated counties
where the economics will not support them.
And wherever they build a veterinary school and wherever the graduates come from does not mean that they're going to go going back to rural practice in very sparsely populated counties.
And there is
certainly not enough funding for the present school, so why would we want to try to fund two schools?
There are no other states that have two schools except one, and Tuskegee has got a school.
And it was a minority black school.
And most states, only about 25, 26 states have veterinary colleges.
Now, one of the items talked about today by some East Texas representatives is for Tech to put its vet school over in East Texas.
There is no veterinary program that is located geographically away from a university, is there?
Oh, not that I'm aware of.
There are some branches, but they're all affiliated with one university.
During your years, women began in veterinary medicine here at A&M and on the faculty.
Look back and generalize about the coming of women here.
How smoothly did that occur?
Well, the first student we had was back in 1960, let me see, about 1964, I think, something like that.
60, huh?
Graduated and came here in 63 or 64.
And she was a very nice young lady, and her name was Sonya Oliphant, and she was from Poteet, Texas, and I always called her Miss Poteet.
But she came in.
There had been a number of
women had tried to come into the professional curriculum.
At that time, they all went to Oklahoma to school.
And so as A&M became co-ed and are moving toward that, she came into the curriculum, did a very good job, was a good student, and has done well in practice.
Do you know where she's practicing now?
Yes, I tried to call her today, and it's out west somewhere.
I'll have to look at my notes.
When you do chat with her, tell her I would be pleased to interview her about her student days.
Okay.
Sonia, I know, would be happy to do that.
I tried to call her this morning, and she was in surgery.
And so I'll touch base with her this week sometime.
What was the faculty's reaction to the admission of women?
Well, some of the faculty were a bit concerned because some of them were a bit coarse in their presentations, but they all learned that that was not difficult to change somewhat their vocabulary.
All in all, after the First Lady came, we began to get four, five, six, or seven, thirteen, and then presently about sixty-five percent of our students are
are female, which probably out of 130 you can figure we've got almost 100, I guess, that are female.
So, and then I guess
The first faculty member we had was Dr. Bonnie Beaver, and then I hired a Dr. Coachever and a Dr. Merton.
Dr. Coachever had a millstone around her neck in a way, and she was a Rice graduate.
Of the first six or seven faculty we had, women faculty, were just outstanding, have been outstanding, have made major contributions to the college.
Do you remember any incidents involving co-ed in the early years or female faculty?
Never that I know of.
What about black students?
Well, we had our first black student back in
I don't know when I had him in school.
It was back in the 60s.
A student named Courtney, I guess, I believe was his name.
And he was from, he came.
We used to have students that came in.
We only took students from the state of Texas.
And we had some that came in through various other ways.
You could only become a resident of the state of Texas if you remained out of school for one year and worked full-time and supported yourself.
And we had people that would do that come to Texas and work, support themselves, become a resident, and find their way into the curriculum.
And the school is still fairly well
pointed toward Texas residents.
But Courtney was
Graduated.
From where?
Well, he came to us, I think, out of California to Texas where he had worked.
And then he graduated and I think may have gone back to California and then came back into Dallas or Fort Worth.
And he died here about, oh, a few months ago.
But he did his undergraduate degree in California, you think?
I am not sure.
I'm not sure.
What was the, as far as you recall, what was the reaction of the faculty and the students to him?
None whatsoever.
No problems?
No problem.
I never will forget when I was president of the student body at the veterinary college, I was always doing things that were a bit different.
Not on purpose, it just worked out that way.
But one of my chores was to provide the
the programs for the Veterinary Student Association.
And as vice president, he did that.
He had to line up 10 or 12 speakers a year.
And so one time, the president of Prairie View A&M was a veterinarian.
And so I thought, well, it'd be good if I brought him over as a speaker one evening.
And I did.
I invited him, and he came.
It was the first black, I guess, that had ever been in the college in any way.
Not many blacks are veterinarians because they don't have any
any very little contact with veterinarians there growing up.
So the president of Prairie View came.
The meeting was, best I recall, started at 7 p.m.
and the students were all assembled and no speaker.
And at about 6.59, here came the speaker.
And he came in.
He made his presentation, which was excellent.
Talked about his days of going through veterinary college at Tuskegee.
his interest in veterinary medicine and how it led to his presidency and these many things.
And then as soon as he finished his presentation, the students applauded him, standing ovation.
He turned on his heel and left.
and normally we had refreshments and everything thereafter, but he was that, he was the old generation of black that we were so, we were, the students were very happy to have him and see him, but he just, he just still probably didn't feel exactly, well, he just,
He did that, not for himself, but for the students, I guess, because they really had never interacted with any black.
Do you recall any specific recruitment efforts by veterinary medicine at Prairie View?
By anybody?
Well, we recruited, we had, we had people that went out recruiting all the time from junior colleges and high schools and used local practitioners for recruiting.
And as time came and as we were admonished to, to begin looking at minority recruitment,
We certainly prepared.
It was hard to make contact because you didn't have very many blacks in 4-H or any of the related fields.
You didn't have them as ag teachers.
You didn't have them out as practitioners.
So it was very, very difficult.
And so through the years we tried.
Now we have each summer we have a special program that brings in about 60
minority students, highly qualified.
And we spend, I believe it's four to six weeks here, learning science and veterinary medicine about veterinary medicine.
But most of these people are such good students and so highly qualified that they are recruited all over the United States.
Are those high school kids?
High school.
High school kids.
So it's very difficult to get good minorities.
There have been Hispanic students throughout the years, but has that number been comparatively small also?
Yeah, it's been small, and it's never because of the qualifications.
It's just really those that are very, very highly qualified go into medicine or into engineering or into law.
and they're recruited by all 50 states, and we do not, we always have Hispanics in our veterinary classes, and always have, but not many.
Has A&M ever had any international veterinary students?
All the time we've had any international
was probably in our intern and residency program.
Describe during your years the admissions process for veterinary medicine and how it has changed.
The selection process has been one that's been highly organized and it's been for many years it's been set up
on somewhat of a formula basis.
Everybody had aptitude tests.
They had class standing.
They had to show interest in veterinary medicine.
Most of them had a little background or experience in veterinary medicine.
They had to have a good pre-vet record, a great point average.
And now, through the years, they have developed a very
a precise formula for coming in, which includes your overall grade point average, your last three grade point average for the last three semesters, your graduate record exam score, your letters of recommendation.
But most of it is based on your high school graduating grades.
Most of it is based on strictly on quantitative criteria.
And so that we
I don't have it for this year, but most of our students come in with a grade point average of better than 3.5 and GRE score of up 12, 1250 or something like that.
As far as you know, during all the years of
your service in veterinary medicine.
The committee has been made up of experienced members of the faculty.
Are there some non-faculty?
Yeah, there are some non-faculty and even some non-veterinarians that are invited to participate in this selection process.
The thing about selection to the college
And the one that I guess I'm most proud of is I've never known a student to be selected in this college because of any political pressures.
In fact, I'd say that's a negative factor.
And there have been pressures put on by legislative people, governors, and everyone else, but I've never known of a person that was ever received on that basis.
Now, many colleges have